Organization: Summit Innovation Lab
Contact: Hoban, Jenny 
Email: We provide out-of-school STEM learning opportunities to students. 
Location: Boise
Remote Possible: 100% in office

ABOUT THE ORGANIZATION:
We provide out-of-school STEM learning opportunities to students. 

ABOUT THE PROJECT
Name
	* Business Development

Objectives
	* The externship(s) aims to develop engaging, real-world-based STEM curricula that bridge the gap between classroom learning and industry applications. This outcome would result in more relevant and effective STEM education programs for both our for-profit and not-for-profit businesses.

The externship(s) aims to deliver measurable benefits to Summit Innovation Lab and the students who participate in our programs.  Benefits include improved student learning outcomes, increased STEM program enrollment, and enhanced educator performance.

The externs will drive the development of and leave Summit Innovation Lab with effective and relevant STEM Education Programming for the 2025 school year.

Description and day-to-day tasks:
	* Day-to-Day Tasks: Business Development - Not-for-Profit arm

Support the development of the not-for profit arm of Summit Innovation Lab. 

Conduct both online and hands-on research with robotics and coding products/curriculum, science experiments, books and curriculum.

Test the above with our student population and track results to make recommendations on which products are best suited for our business model.  

Create Social Media Ads that can be used to promote our not for profit collaborations.

Connect with community partners and use collected data to develop our STEM outreach initiatives.

Attend community events to promote our for profit and not for profit programming (ex: tables at the farmer's market, events at JUMP and Green Acres).

Meaningful learning about STEM careers:
	* Proving the extern with hands-on experience with cutting-edge technologies: Externs will work directly with tools like VEX Robotics, Sphero, and Arduino, gaining practical knowledge of how these technologies are used in STEM fields. This experience will allow them to create more engaging and relevant lessons for their students.

Provide the extern with exposure to industry practices: By collaborating with professionals and potentially visiting industry sites, externs will observe how STEM concepts are applied in real-world problem-solving. This exposure can help them design more authentic learning experiences for their students.

Externs will experience firsthand the benefits of collaboration between schools and industry, potentially inspiring them to seek similar partnerships for their own classrooms or schools.

Network growth:
	* The extern will collaborate with our community partners to learn about and test STEM products that we will then use in our programming. 

I am an active participant in entrepreneurial and STEM events in the Valley. The extern will have networking opportunities throughout their summer experience, immersing them in Boise's vibrant STEM and business community. 

Skills desired:
	* Spreadsheet Software (MS Excel or Google Sheets);Word Processing Software (MS Word or Google Docs);Presentation Software (MS Powerpoint or Google Slides);Public Speaking / Group Presentation;

STEM domain experience desired:
	* Chemistry;Computer Science (e.g., coding, programming languages, software/app development, etc.);Curriculum Development, Business Development and Operations. ;


