Organization: Gizmo-CdA
Contact: Mueller, Barbara
Email: Gizmo-CdA is a nonprofit makerspace that fosters innovation, creativity, and hands-on learning in STEM (Science, Technology, Engineering, and Math). Through workshops, community programs, and workforce development initiatives, we provide access to tools, technology, and mentorship that empower individuals of all ages to explore STEM fields. Gizmo plays a critical role in introducing students to STEM careers by offering hands-on experience in engineering, electronics, robotics, digital fabrication, and advanced manufacturing. Our programs bridge the gap between education and industry, helping students and community members build skills that translate into real-world opportunities. By engaging learners in meaningful, project-based experiences, we inspire curiosity and confidence, ensuring they see themselves as capable problem-solvers and innovators.
Location: Coeur d'Alene Id
Remote Possible: 100% in office

ABOUT THE ORGANIZATION:
Gizmo-CdA is a nonprofit makerspace that fosters innovation, creativity, and hands-on learning in STEM (Science, Technology, Engineering, and Math). Through workshops, community programs, and workforce development initiatives, we provide access to tools, technology, and mentorship that empower individuals of all ages to explore STEM fields. Gizmo plays a critical role in introducing students to STEM careers by offering hands-on experience in engineering, electronics, robotics, digital fabrication, and advanced manufacturing. Our programs bridge the gap between education and industry, helping students and community members build skills that translate into real-world opportunities. By engaging learners in meaningful, project-based experiences, we inspire curiosity and confidence, ensuring they see themselves as capable problem-solvers and innovators.

ABOUT THE PROJECT
Name
	* Pathways to Potential

Objectives
	* With this project, Gizmo aims to create a STEM-based curriculum tied to workforce training, giving teachers and students a view of the possibilities for STEM in the workplace by connecting education to actual jobs. This exposure to STEM-based career opportunities will illustrate various ways that learning can be implemented and highlight needs within companies that project-based learning can fill. By working in a cohort, externs will be able to learn from each other's workplace experiences and work as a team to create and teach a curriculum for Gizmo and the students they return to in the fall. Externs will gain connections in the business community, with Gizmo, and with the educators in their cohort.

Description and day-to-day tasks:
	* Participants will begin onboarding by diving into the industry database, gaining insight into sector trends, job pathways, and key industry players. They will engage in hands-on maker projects within the makerspace, immersing themselves in project-driven learning while exploring industry-relevant skills. Throughout the externship, participants will collaborate with professionals, experiencing direct industry engagement and workplace expectations. They will work as a cohort as they progress, contributing to curriculum development, deepening their own tool training, and refining their technical skills. Finally, they will transition into teaching and knowledge-sharing, applying what they've learned by guiding students through hands-on experiences. The program will conclude with reflection and wrap-up activities, ensuring a comprehensive understanding of industry applications and educational impact.

Meaningful learning about STEM careers:
	* This externship is designed as a cohort experience, where externs will work both independently and collaboratively to develop skills, gain industry insights, and share their knowledge with one another  By leveraging TechHelp’s industry database to identify local STEM employers and workforce training resources, externs will observe a variety of businesses that rely on STEM skills.

These educators will gain insight into the projects and challenges that different industries face as they do onsite visits to two to three different businesses in the area. They will gain knowledge on industry trends affecting the skills needed for success and bring that information back to the cohort. That knowledge can be used to create curriculum at Gizmo and in their classrooms.

The externs will also have hands-on exposure to Gizmo’s advanced tools (CNC machines, 3D printers, laser cutters, and electronics labs), gaining new skill sets that can be taken back to the classroom.

These experiences will help the extern translate industry STEM needs into classroom projects that allow students to “see themselves” in these careers and reach students who may not have had exposure to STEM pathways.



Network growth:
	* Our TechHelp partner provides industry connections throughout North Idaho. Externs will learn to use the TechHelp database to research companies and find workplaces to explore during their time with Gizmo. The externs will also be able to form connections with each other and with the people they meet at Gizmo.

Each extern will spend a week meeting with 2 or 3 industry partners. They will report back to the other cohort members to learn from each other's experiences and get broader exposure to more STEM-related careers. The knowledge they gain from these experiences will inform what they teach both at Gizmo and when they return to their classrooms in the fall.

Skills desired:
	* No specific skills needed - we'll take anyone with the right attitude & train on what's needed!;All would be great, yet a passion to learn, collaborate, and loves project driven education;

STEM domain experience desired:
	* It will be the choice of the extern what industries they observe;


