Organization: Idaho Falls ZOo
Contact: West, Bethanie 
Email: It is the purpose of the Idaho Falls Zoo (IFZ) to operate as a professional facility which houses captive wildlife and domestic animals, provides recreational and educational opportunities for its visitors, and actively participates in the conservation of all natural resources.
Location: Idaho Falls
Remote Possible: Hybrid - sometimes in office

ABOUT THE ORGANIZATION:
It is the purpose of the Idaho Falls Zoo (IFZ) to operate as a professional facility which houses captive wildlife and domestic animals, provides recreational and educational opportunities for its visitors, and actively participates in the conservation of all natural resources.

ABOUT THE PROJECT
Name
	* Measuring Conservation Behavior in Idaho Falls Zoo Guests

Objectives
	* Collect 300 Adult SDS Surveys
Collect 40 Youth SDS Surveys
Collect 300 Zoo Experience Surveys
Analyze survey data and make conclusions.


Description and day-to-day tasks:
	* Each day, externs will check in, review the zoo schedule for the day to determine when presentations and events are occurring, then plan their day accordingly. 

Externs will arrive early to presentations and stay after presentations to collect guest surveys. They ask guests to participate in surveys at specific animal habitats. And participate in collecting surveys from guests at zoo exhibits, before and after their visit to the zoo. Externs may also assist in various programs at the zoo such as summer camps once survey quota for the day is complete.  

Externs will have to strategically plan where they will focus their surveys to ensure a balanced group of data is collected to represent the three survey areas (animal habitat, exploration station, and presentation) equally. They will also have to manage their data to ensure that even numbers of before and after surveys are collected. 

At the end of each week, externs will report to the Curator of Education to highlight their progress and plan for the upcoming week.

Meaningful learning about STEM careers:
	* The Idaho Falls Zoo has performed research on the impact a visit to the zoo has on guests over the last four years. After completing the previous studies, Idaho Falls Zoo has formalized their process and determined the best methods for continued data collection. Externs will have the opportunity to see how data can be gathered and analyzed to target areas of success and areas for improvement.  They will see how statistics and math can help to improve our organizations ability to meet our mission.

In addition to this, externs will have the opportunity to observe various zoo programs, learn the basics of interpretation using techniques developed by the National Association of Interpretation, and learn about the basics of animal welfare and conservation within AZA accredited Zoos.


Network growth:
	* The extern will have access to our digital learning academy with courses developed by professionals in the zoo and aquarium world for their basic training courses. In addition, they will work closely with the Curator of Education and the rest of the education department team. Throughout their various tasks, externs will have the opportunity to observe keeper chats and educational programs and interact with the staff providing those programs to learn from them. 

The extern will have regular 1 on 1 meetings with the curator of education to determine their needs/wants to help facilitate setting up opportunities that will provide the best experience for the extern. 


Skills desired:
	* Spreadsheet Software (MS Excel or Google Sheets);Project Management;Public Speaking / Group Presentation

STEM domain experience desired:
	* Life Science / Biology;Earth & Environmental Science;Math;Computer Science (e.g., coding, programming languages, software/app development, etc.)


