Organization: The Land Group, Inc.
Contact: Hawkins, Christopher 
Email: The Land Group is a multi-disciplinary design firm with professional landscape architects, civil engineers and land surveyors. Our team of these 3 designated STEM disciplines works collaboratively within our firm, and with allied professionals, to design outdoor spaces, improve community infrastructure, and guide development projects throughout the Intermountain West.  We take an evidence-based approach to design grounded in analytical research.
Location: Eagle
Remote Possible: 100% in office

ABOUT THE ORGANIZATION:
The Land Group is a multi-disciplinary design firm with professional landscape architects, civil engineers and land surveyors. Our team of these 3 designated STEM disciplines works collaboratively within our firm, and with allied professionals, to design outdoor spaces, improve community infrastructure, and guide development projects throughout the Intermountain West.  We take an evidence-based approach to design grounded in analytical research.

ABOUT THE PROJECT
Name
	* Graceful Aging: A Design and Engineering Toolkit to Ensure the Golden Years are Golden

Objectives
	* This project is The Land Group’s 2025 research project that is used to facilitate evidence-based design. For the past decade, civil engineering and landscape architecture interns have explored a new and relevant topic related to the firm’s scope of practice and presented solutions to improve our design and engineering responses. These research projects have resulted in opportunities for the professional growth of our interns while providing much needed evidence-based design strategies for professionals practicing at our office. Additionally, these research deliverables have been presented at local and regional conferences that have elevated local best practices for design professionals. This year’s topic will allow The Land Group to improve inclusive community design outcomes to ensure America’s aging population is adequately represented. The externship program will seamlessly integrate into this team of post-secondary intern researchers and the extern will provide leadership and technical skills that will help create a more robust final product. The extern will also work alongside professional mentors to gain a deep understanding of the social and technical design challenges addressed daily by the STEM-designated disciplines at The Land Group.   
 
More generally, The Land Group stands to benefit from the extern’s depth of knowledge and understanding of the skills, interests, and opportunities for growth in today’s STEM classrooms. This allows internal training of new hires and outreach to aspiring landscape architects, civil engineers, land surveyors, and land planners to be more tuned to the needs of today’s students and tomorrow’s STEM workforce. 

Description and day-to-day tasks:
	* The extern’s primary day-to-day responsibilities will include the management of a team producing a design and engineering toolkit describing best practices for community design targeting users over 65 years of age. This will require descriptive research to extrapolate broad trends in the over 65 user group, as well as more focused qualitative research through surveys, interviews, and observations. The extern will work closely with The Land Group’s professional practitioners and 2-4 interns (advanced undergraduate or graduate students in landscape architecture and civil engineering) to collaborate to produce compelling graphics and narrative summaries of the findings. There will be the opportunity to learn STEM-related technology platforms such as the Adobe Suite (Photoshop, Illustrator, InDesign) that will translate to the classroom. 

Beyond this, the extern will have exposure to the general day-to-day duties of The Land Group’s multidisciplinary firm. This will include joining landscape architects, civil engineers, land surveyors, and land planners on site visits, client meetings, public hearings, design team meetings, etc.

Meaningful learning about STEM careers:
	* The Land Group offers a unique advantage for understanding STEM fields because we are a multidisciplinary firm with specialists in three fields designated by the Department of Homeland Security as STEM disciplines, including Land Surveying, Civil Engineering, and Landscape Architecture (designated in July, 2023.) The following description of STEM alignment has been modified from the American Society of Landscape Architects to summarize all three STEM disciplines’ engagement with science, technology, engineering, and mathematics. The Extern will interact regularly with staff from all three of these disciplines throughout the program.

Landscape architects, civil engineers, and land surveyors study the scientific basis of natural and built world daily through environmental sciences, ecology, soil science, biology, physics, mathematics horticulture, and others.

Landscape architects, civil engineers, and land surveyors use advanced technology applications such as ESRI’s GIS, LiDAR, drones, 3D modeling tools, digital drawing tools, vehicle movement simulators, and graphic presentation tools.

Landscape architects, civil engineers, and land surveyors regularly use engineering principles to geolocate existing natural and built features of a site using map projections and datum, manipulate landforms through grading, manage stormwater through drainage system design, and ensure the health, safety, and welfare of users by applying appropriate erosion control and site engineering techniques. 

Landscape architects, civil engineers, and land surveyors regularly apply mathematics including algebra, trigonometry, geometry, and calculus when preparing planting, irrigation, structural, earthwork, stormwater, electrical, energy, and hydraulic computations.

Network growth:
	* As noted above, The Land Group is a multi-disciplinary firm. That enables daily interaction with practitioners from 3 designated STEM disciplines as well as an allied discipline of land planning. Beyond that, because The Land Group works on many of the region’s most ambitious and complex projects (Micron, St. Luke’s, Boise State University, Brundage Mountain Resort, Tamarack Resort, College of Western Idaho) we have excellent partners. Externs will have the opportunity to engage with geotechnical engineers, mechanical/electrical/plumbing engineers, structural engineers, architects, restoration ecologists, construction managers, and general/trade contractors. These discussions will occur organically as the extern joins meetings and site visits, but they also happen more intentionally through education sessions that are a long-standing part of The Land Group’s intern program and new employee onboarding.

Skills desired:
	* Word Processing Software (MS Word or Google Docs);Spreadsheet Software (MS Excel or Google Sheets);Project Management;Presentation Software (MS Powerpoint or Google Slides);Public Speaking / Group Presentation;Email & Administrative Software

STEM domain experience desired:
	* Life Science / Biology;Earth & Environmental Science;Math;Information & Communication Technology (e.g. networking, data management, building/troubleshooting computer systems, etc.);Agriculture, Food, Natural Resources;Engineering


