Organization: Saint Alphonsus Health System
Contact: Mahnken, Jad
Email: jad.mahnken@saintalphonsus.org
Location: Boise, ID
Remote Possible: Yes
ABOUT THE ORGANIZATION:
We are a non-profit healthcare system that provides quality healthcare in the surrounding region. We are the largest trauma center in the region and therefore have a vast number of different careers/specialties represented, we are constantly working to find new ways to best serve our community. We serve all patients regardless of status or condition. 
ABOUT THE PROJECT
Name: Career Event Planning and Educational Content Development		
Objectives:
We hope to host 1 or more events to help educate (students, parents, community partners) on healthcare careers. We want to continue to develop resources for our educational partners. This will benefit our organization because we understand the value of providing this education and partnership, but our team could use support to initiate and develop some of these efforts. We also appreciate having the perspective of someone who is currently working in education to advise on many of these efforts. 		

Description and day-to-day tasks:
This internship will likely vary often in what the day-to-day work will look like. There will be a good amount of team collaboration, project development meetings and work time, outreach and coordination efforts, and implementation of project efforts. There will be mixed hours of working directly with the team/mentors and independent project work and development.
Meaningful learning about STEM careers:
They will be helping us to create/develop various ways to educate and explore healthcare career pathways, which will give them both the tools and the knowledge to bring back to students about what a real-world career in healthcare can look like	

Network growth:
They will work with at least two different teams at Saint Alphonsus. While creating resources and event planning, they will conduct interviews and attend meetings with colleagues in clinical healthcare roles. They will have the opportunity to tour areas of interest if they desire. 	

Skills desired:
Word Processing Software (MS Word or Google Docs);Spreadsheet Software (MS Excel or Google Sheets);No specific skills needed - we'll take anyone with the right attitude & train on what's needed!;Presentation Software (MS Powerpoint or Google Slides);Basic computer/admin skills are preferred!;
STEM domain experience desired:
Experience with healthcare would be preferred, but is not required!;



