Organization: Idaho Division of Career Technical Education
Contact: Hodges, Janine
Email: janine.hodges@cte.idaho.gov
Location: Boise, ID
Remote Possible: Yes
ABOUT THE ORGANIZATION:
The Idaho Division of Career Technical Education (IDCTE) provides technical assistance to career technical educators across the state. IDCTE is charged with ensuring program funding and consistent, high-quality programming in Idaho schools. This encompasses secondary and post-secondary programs that prepare students for high demand, high skill jobs in Idaho.
ABOUT THE PROJECT
Name: CTE Teacher Mentor Program Development
Objectives:
The extern would be engaged in teacher retention programming. This work would evaluate trends in educator attrition, review literature regarding retention strategies, and increase support for new teachers through the development of a mentorship handbook. IDCTE provides general professional development support that addresses the needs of instructors coming into education from industry. However, mentors in the field are in need of a handbook of best practices to ensure consistent application. In addition to the classroom environment, CTE instructors must also administer programming through their program specific Career Technical Student Organization and potentially work-based learning programs as well. These components are an integral part of CTE and access to specific content for integrating educational opportunities in and out of the classroom is key to teacher success. One of the greatest challenges for CTE programs is in retaining qualified personnel for the local school's desired program area. There is a need to develop a base set of guidelines as well as presentation materials that can be shared during the annual CTE summer conference, Connect, and within the IDCTE Professional Development department. Following completion of this project, the handbook could be utilized by teacher organizations, in lock-step with IDCTE’s professional development team, to provide continuous, sustainable support for new teachers.
Description and day-to-day tasks:
The extern will be engaged in collaborating with various units within IDCTE and the field to curate necessary information into a mentorship handbook. Day to day, they will be managing the project through collaboration with our Program Quality, Student Leadership, and Educator Services teams to find relevant reference material and resources for the handbook. The collaborative piece of the project will likely take about 50 hours. Additionally, the extern will be reviewing peer-reviewed articles regarding successful mentorship programs to direct the mentors with empirically proven methods. The extern should spend approximately 30 hours in research. They will then develop a general CTE Mentorship Handbook with a template for content specific supplements, so that the material can be easily updated over time, which should take up a bulk of the work, approximately 75 hours. Towards the end of the project, the extern will be developing presentation materials to present at the Idaho Division of Career Technical Education run professional development conference, which will take about 20 hours. The conference itself, which will be a required component of the project, will take approximately 25 hours.
Meaningful learning about STEM careers:
There are three components to this project which will expand the educator's arsenal of tools in the teaching profession. Firstly, this is directly related to project management. There are a variety of jobs on the Occupations in Demand list that are related to project management, and the educators direct experience in this process will give them an advantage in teaching students how to efficiently and effectively execute a project. Secondly, the teacher will be expanding their critical thinking and research skills as they collect data from peer reviewed articles and apply it to the project. Many teachers would like to continue in their education and giving them a background in a project that might double as a master's project or develop a research foundation for a thesis is incredibly valuable. Finally, the teacher will be expanding their knowledge of CTE in Idaho and the network of resources that is available to them throughout the state. This tool will no doubt come in handy as they continue to administer high-quality, hands-on learning for the rest of their career in CTE. 	

Network growth:
The extern will be working one on one with individuals of all levels in our office to gather the information they need for the project. This will give them a greater understanding of how IDCTE can better serve the field and communicate it in the handbook. The extern will also be working with well-respected educators and retired educators to develop best practices for the mentor program and gather content specific resources. They will also be presenting their work at the Connect Conference this summer, which is a state wide CTE conference, drawing in stakeholders, administrators, and fellow teachers. 	

Skills desired:
Word Processing Software (MS Word or Google Docs);Presentation Software (MS Powerpoint or Google Slides);Secondary-Level Instructional Experience;Project Management;Public Speaking / Group Presentation;Email & Administrative Software;Positive attitude and willingness to work hard!;
STEM domain experience desired:
No, experience in a specific STEM domain isn't necessary;Agriculture, Food, Natural Resources;



