Organization: Apprenticeship Idaho at Idaho Department of Labor
Contact: Robison, Gina
Email: gina.robison@labor.idaho.gov
Location: Boise, ID
Remote Possible: Yes
ABOUT THE ORGANIZATION:
Workforce Development - WIOA and Registered Apprenticeship as well as unemployment insurance, etc.
ABOUT THE PROJECT
Name: Developing Workforce Development Career Ladder Pathways through Apprenticeship 
Objectives:
  This project aims to establish a robust framework for apprenticeships, enhancing career opportunities in key sectors and aligning with industry standards. The Project will be centered on creating Career Ladder RAPs (Registered Apprenticeship Programs) for IDOL and agency partner workforce consultants (i.e. group sponsors and colleges) that lead to USDOL recognized certifications for Workforce Consultant, Youth Consultant, and Apprenticeship Coordinator. Our organization will benefit by having consistent information and unified processes. 
Description and day-to-day tasks:
• Training and Apprenticeship Opportunities: The extern will receive foundational training in registered apprenticeship concepts, focusing on developing standards for critical roles. Additionally, the extern will also train on the basics of “a day in the life of” all three occupations to receive a better understanding of the job role that goes beyond the job description. 

 

 • Extern Responsibilities:  

Build a relevant OJL (On-the-Job Learning) model by collaborating with stakeholders to construct an OJL model, encompassing needs assessment, best practice identification, and knowledge requirements. 

Research and data collection to Identify coursework providers.  

Build the instructional outline of required coursework (work with stakeholders to identify needs, etc) 

Work with the Development Coordinator to write the USDOL standards of apprenticeship. 

 

 • Key Responsibilities:  

Organize and lead stakeholder feedback sessions, with a focus on gathering actionable insights for program enhancement.  

Extern will collect and analyze data to make educated decisions for future events.  

Extern will research instructional providers and assess training viability for relevancy, cost, and accessibility. 

 

• The goal is for the extern to use a combination of soft and STEM skills in a variety of different methods to identify, plan, promote, execute stakeholder engagement and research.  

 

• The extern will learn about what skills are expected in developing career pathways for careers that support STEM careers and for any career. They will use a combination of soft and STEM skills in a variety of different methods while assisting the workforce industry program managers in the development of a portion of the infrastructure that advances STEM career development and training. 

 

• STEM learning opportunities.  

Data: The extern will collect and analyze stakeholder data to make educated decisions for OJL and RTI (Related Technical Instruction) outlines.  

Problem solving: Apply scientific and analytical thinking to troubleshoot issues related to program relevancy, cost, and accessibility. 

 

 • Tasks  

Work with stakeholders to build OJL models. 

Conduct research and propose innovative new ideas for RTI and OJL 

Conduct research and propose relevant providers to support the RAP 

Coordinate with vendors.
Meaningful learning about STEM careers:
Through hands-on involvement in apprenticeship program development, externs will gain invaluable insights into STEM career requirements, enriching their classroom teaching. The extern will learn what goes into developing an apprenticeship program and the STEM skills required to support STEM careers. 
Network growth:
Externs will interact with a diverse range of professionals, gaining a holistic understanding of different roles and functions within the STEM field. The extern will have the freedom to schedule one-on-one meetings with division leads to gain comprehensive knowledge of their roles. One goal is for the extern to have a good understanding of how all three levels of the career ladder support the workforce development industry.  
Skills desired:
Project Management;Adult Education / Training;Email & Administrative Software;Presentation Software (MS Powerpoint or Google Slides);Word Processing Software (MS Word or Google Docs);Spreadsheet Software (MS Excel or Google Sheets);Research;
STEM domain experience desired:
No, experience in a specific STEM domain isn't necessary;



