Organization: Boys & Girls Clubs of Magic Valley
Contact: Frampton, Pam 
Email: pframpton@bgcmv.com
Location: Twin Falls, ID (We also have programs in Buhl, Jerome, Rupert and Pocatello)
Remote Possible: Yes
ABOUT THE ORGANIZATION:
We are a youth Development organization. We have 12 sites that we operate. 10 in the Magic Valley and two in the Pocatello area. We provide afterschool and summer services to members ages 5 and up. We operate inside 9 elementary schools, focusing on programming for Kindergarten to 5th grade. The programming and mentorship we do with our youth varies. We do SEL, Arts, Physical education, Leadership and Character building, and STEM just to name a few. 

ABOUT THE PROJECT
Name
	* STEM connections-Bridging youth and the STEM workforce		

Objectives
	* Forge partnerships with local STEM businesses and/or industries 
Integrate community involvement into STEM activities into Boys and Girls Club programs
Provide meaningful experiences for youth through interactive STEM engagements
Foster interest and enthusiasm for STEM careers among Club members
Provide the Extern with hand on experiences in forging partnerships and integrating STEM education into youth programs/classrooms

Description and day-to-day tasks:
	* The Extern is spearheading the STEM Connections project with the goal to bring STEM workforce into BGC programs through partnerships with local businesses. Their role involves research, outreach, event planning, facilitation and evaluation to provide meaningful STEM experience for Club members.

Meaningful learning about STEM careers:
	* The Extern will research and find local STEM fields to come and speak, provided hands on experiences etc.. To show youth what careers are out there and what it takes to be in those fields. 	


Network growth:
	* The Extern will have the ability to make these connections by setting up presentation on hands on learning experiences at the BGC and take them back with them to the classroom. 	


Skills desired:
	*No specific skills needed - we'll take anyone with the right attitude & train on what's needed!;Project Management;Curriculum Design;Spreadsheet Software (MS Excel or Google Sheets);Word Processing Software (MS Word or Google Docs);Presentation Software (MS Powerpoint or Google Slides);

STEM domain experience desired:
	* No, experience in a specific STEM domain isn't necessary;


