Organization: Idaho National Laboratory
Contact: Shepherd, Sunshine 
Email: sunshine.shepherd@inl.gov
Location: Idaho Falls, ID
Remote Possible: No

ABOUT THE ORGANIZATION:
The mission of INL’s K-12 Education Enrichment Programs is to inspire Idaho’s future STEM workforce; impact students, teachers and families by integrating best practices in STEM education; and empower employees to become STEM mentors to transform K-12 Education Enrichment into a driver for innovation.

ABOUT THE PROJECT
Name
	* STEM Scholars, Cybercore, and BRIDGES Camp Support		

Objectives
	* We will focus on sharing our resources and helping to educate/train teachers about ways to incorporate these STEM projects into their own classrooms. The extern will learn how industry provides opportunities and pathways for students during the summer through various programming.		


Description and day-to-day tasks:
	* There will be three separate projects for this externship: 
(1) The Idaho National Laboratory (INL) has partnered with the U.S. Department of Energy's (DOE) Bioenergy Technologies Office (BETO) and Argonne National Laboratory (ANL) to establish the Bioenergy Research and Education BRIDGES program. This program assists educators in teaching bioenergy topics to help prepare a future bioenergy workforce. Teacher externs will engage in bioenergy research and development projects alongside INL researchers, gaining insights into the conversion of biomass, municipal waste, and other domestically available carbon sources into sustainable fuel, chemicals, products, and power. Additionally, externs will apply their acquired knowledge to develop educational curriculum materials, contributing to the introduction of bioenergy topics and bioenergy careers to students. 
(2) We are seeking enthusiastic middle or high school teachers interested in participating in an externship focused on guiding students through immersive cybersecurity and computer science summer camps.  As part of the externship, you'll be leading hands-on activities with 8th to 12th-grade students, covering basics like computing, networking, and Python programming. You'll get to explore cyber-physical systems using Raspberry Pi, dive into circuit design, soldering, and embedded systems, and even touch on advanced operating systems. 
(3) INL’s STEM Scholars Program is a summer camp for eastern Idaho students in grades one through 12 that provides hands-on experience with a variety of STEM topics during daily in-person camps. The theme of this year’s camps is “Computer Science” which features age-appropriate research activities. Externs will engage in development of related curriculum for these students by researching and working alongside professionals in the field. 
 As part of the program externships, you'll connect with industry professionals through demonstrations, lectures, and tours of local facilities coordinated by our industry partners. This means you'll bring real-world insights back to your teaching. If you're a teacher who loves sharing knowledge, is excited about technology we would love to work with you! 

Each programs day-to-day activities will vary!

Meaningful learning about STEM careers:
	* The mission of INL’s K-12 Education Enrichment Programs is to inspire Idaho’s future STEM workforce; impact students, teachers and families by integrating best practices in STEM education; and empower employees to become STEM mentors to transform K-12 Education Enrichment into a driver for innovation.	
This being our mission we will focus on expanding the STEM lens for our externs and provide multiple opportunities where they will be able to see how they can take these experiences and curriculum back into their classrooms. 

Network growth:
	* Externs will have the opportunity to work with various STEM professionals throughout the summer by engaging in 1 on 1 conversations, participating in various site tours and helping during a variety of classroom presentations. 	


Skills desired:
	*No specific skills needed - we'll take anyone with the right attitude & train on what's needed!;

STEM domain experience desired:
	* No, experience in a specific STEM domain isn't necessary;


